Jolie is a programming language
created in the context of the European Project "Sensoria"
and developed by the FoCUS team
a joint group between the Department of Computer Science in Bologna
and INRIA, Sophia-Antipolis.
Our World is more and more interconnected.
Services like Facebook and Google Maps
are used everywhere.
However, every service "speaks" its own "language",
on the contrary,
to benefit from their potential
we need a way to let them speak to each other.
Our solution to this problem
is Jolie.
To better understand what we can do with Jolie
let us see a practical example.
We are visiting Bologna
and we want to let our friends see that we are having fun!
We take a picture of "Le Due Torri"
and we add a comment.
("Turtlèn" is Bolognese dialect for "Tortellini")
By just clicking a button
we send our photo and comment to a Jolie program
which will take care of geolocalising it, using Google Maps,
of sharing it on Facebook and Twitter
and of saving it on our Flickr account.
More in general
Jolie has strong theoretical foundations,
it is used to structure highly sophisticated systems
but also to program small auxiliary services.
italianaSoftware is a company purposed at bringing
the Jolie technology into the industrial world.
Jolie is currently used within many companies
Jolie is currently used in many companies
to coordinate industrial processes.
Its strength lies on handling (well) communications
among different services and companies.
Jolie has users all over the world,
Jolie has users all over the world!
It has reached more than 20.000 downloads
in particular from USA, Spain, Italy, China, and Russia.
The main institutes that do research and develop the language
are the University of Bologna
and the Information Technology University of Copenhagen
To know more about the possibilities offered by Jolie
visit its official website www.jolie-lang.org